PLANS

Endless-JRPG
Fight your way through until you lose.
Stats and math will roughly be based on my TTRPG math plans.

GENERAL IDEAS
You have 4 characters that each have a role
(Roles may be selected at game start)
Every 4 fights they live through, your characters gain a level
(improve the character selected.)
Each role has X abilities and gains a fixed stat array per level.
A level up may be traded for an equipment roll
(the item will be on-level for your party, and roughly biased towards the character it's rolling for, but the slot and stats or any special abilities will be random.)
Every X fights (12? 20? 19? 15?) is a boss fight
Boss fights are a separate encounter list (or a fixed list for a plot?) with significantly higher stats.

GRAPHICS
i think I want 5 colors per sprite? (4 + transparent) to do the Bloodstained-style NES+ graphics? Or closer to 16 for the SNES?
Stick to the PV8 Palette? Or expand it?
THeme: cyberpunk? urban fantasy? plain sci-fi? Eclipse Phase (octopus pc!)?
frames: 7-11 total?
1 Idle
2-4 attack
2-4 use ability
1 dead
1 on-recieve-hit
1 'ready' sprite (for the active character you're picking stuff for)?

NEWGAME
Pick your character's roles, and possible sprite set
(I have to draw at least 4 characters, and can expand on more. Maybe these will become meta-sprite sets for simplicity. I also might stick roles and sprites together.)
(i also need to get a drawing template to edit on to make this faster.)
Possibly see the best records for previous runs for roles or info preview
Name characters as well.

Roles
There are X roles in the game.
Each role should have some flavor/fluff attached (ex: preferred weapon names, core stats per level)
And X abilities (4? 8?) that can be used instead of a straight attack
(roles should have a set of abilities based towards their purpose, but can branch out)
EX: White Mage might have Heal, Resurrect, UnPoison, and TurnUndead
starting stats and stat gain is determined by role.

Fight
The core game screen.
Very FF1-6 style fight screen, PCs on right, monsters on left.
Simple stat system from existing docs. tweaking may occur in practice.
Enemies have base stats per level, actual fights are randomized (may have fixed fights for a plot progression deal eventually)

Improve
When a character lives through 4 fights, the improve screen opens up for them (multiple levels queue the screen up multiple times)
You can choose to gain extra stat points, boost up an ability of theirs, or roll for an equipment drop. (equipment will offer good stat boosts, but slot and distribution is random)

UNLOCKS
Make sufficient progress and you can unlock new options
EX: get White Mage and Fighter to a certain level each, unlock a Monk that has a combo of both melee and healing powers.
These could be roles or sprite options, possibly equipment power. Maybe other things for progressing faster (like keeping an item between games or starting at a higher level?)

DEVELOPMENT PLANS
use metasprites where possible
write up core system pieces - 1 to make sure stuff compiles
Get baseline fight scene in place
get baseline improve scene in place.
do spritework for baseline char and enemy
prove system runs.
Add baseline content ()
implement additional content into systems (enemies, characters, roles, etc)
Auto-fight option (simplest choice is auto-melee each round until it gets toggled off, later option should also use abilities)


IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Restoring MP: How? Give classes an ability that does this? Make it part of the Defend action? On level up?

Bosses should probably be every 19 or 20 fights. They'll creep forward one encounter per loop, so every 4 bosses will be right after a level up.
I don't want them to show up right after a level up every time.

working name is Eclipse Phase:Expendables
may change later, or reskin as desired.


Display:
PCs need a place to display name and HP/MaxHP. Where at? Probably on the right of the PC sprites?
4 rows of text for that (leave 1 blank for spacing):
name
level [or status effects?]
hp/maxhp
or use a bar for that? 
Mp/maxMP? or display that on the ability panel?

sounds
A sound effect should be played for each action, Probably determined by the ability or action.
Should figure out background music (play a wav song on one channel, play some other noise to stop it and then play new song?)
--This might need PV8 to play compressed files, like .ogg files (i might have to PR this in myself)
Will also need a list of which sound effects are which, possibly a descriptive table.

Leveling up:
Gaining a level is generally the most efficient option, (and might restore HP/MP to full?)
Items can be a huge stat boost, but they're based on your current level, and randomly rolled, so they arent always great
Pumping a single stat can be important for specific builds or trying to make up for something, but you'll get more total stat points from leveling.

BOSSES:
Bosses get bigger scaling values and start over a party's level by a few levels

STAT PURPOSES:
STR - physical damage (FIGHT)
DEF - counters STR
INS - ability damage
MOX: counters INS
SPD - determines initiative order
LUK - determines crit chance (Attackers LUK - targets LUK = X. Roll d100 to see if its under the spread. Negative spread means the defense can critical block/attack can botch on rolls under 0. LUK is not a dump stat! Probably.)

Could have a hardcore/random start mode - roles are randomly selected but gives different bragging rights? most fights survived as random party insteaed of total best levels?

MP:
I could do a traditional MP system
OR i could make MP a counter that wears down and all abilities are equally costly
(EX: you're Batman, your utility belt has 5 things, what 5 things they are is determined when you need them)
and you have to make them last until you refresh them (on level up? or on beating a boss)?

If I make this an Eclipse Phase setting game, should I switch the combat rules to match EP 2e?
EP has lots of possibilities for roles though 
each morph, faction, occupation could be a role on its own, and i can mix or match them up.
and not awful to give each 4 unique powers
(and expand on mechanics in the future to allow for more roles.)

Do I want abilities to be under a menu? Or do I just want to present those 4 options directly?
(This makes the middle layer between target select unnecessary)
I might do this to avoid some of the growing complexity.

likely roles: remember roughly assuming Eclipse Phase setting. These will have varying stat and damage type distributions
Infantry
(fight, shoot-one-first-quick, shoot-one last but stronger, shoot-all, gain a damage type swap)
Medic
(fight, regen-1, heal-1, resurrect-1, debuff enemy stat)
Tactician
(fight, attack 1 element A, attack 1 element B, Analyze ability(see enemy stats), run(reroll encounter, maybe named Reposition))
Neo-octopus
(fight, attack-all, buff-all, debuff-all, camoflague for self-boost of some kind?)
Hacker
(fight, buff 1 ally, disable 1 enemy, re-roll ally weapon stats(once per level),  debuff 1 enemy)
Async
(fight, element A attack all, hit target weakness, heal 1 ally, good luck (self crit buf))
Operative (SS13 reference - red hardsuit and laser sword)
(fight with laser-sword damage type, C4 explode-all-enemies, hack a synth enemy, buff speed on ally, expensive res power on ally)
Factor (Prototype factor-based morph for agent use. big stats, weird/bad abilties?)

HEALING NOTE
players might get different levels of healing depending on their morph type
EX: heals for biomorphs don't help synthmorphs, and rebuilding nanites for synths don't help biomorphs. Pods get half of either.

'ELEMENTAL' typing
Attacks have a damage type:

Heals also have a heal type:
Bio or Synth. Only helps on morphs of the same type. Pods are half of each, get half benefit.


Unlockables:
global stat boosts (EX: get role X to level Y, all characters gain Z in a specific stat)
New roles (and/or upgrades for roles)
new title screens (eventually, i will commission a few once the rest of the game is going. Might just make them random, unlockable is a possibility though.)
defeating bosses, getting roles to certain levels, certain high score values, winning lucky encounter, getting to level X with a specific party makeup, total playtime, total wins/losses, etc
can all things that trigger an unlock.
If I do perma-progression towards an end-game, defeating bosses might do that (if they're every 20 level, you can start at that level for 'story' progress (EX: Floor 20, level 5))
that might actually be a good idea.


ABILITY NOTE
should have Game Over fire off after all results are processed.
This leaves room for a Pheonix-style ability to work 
PHEONIX: goes late (Speed 2? so last-attack could counter it or speed 1/0/-1 to go after slow attacks?), but restores caster to half HP.
I wonder if I'd want passive abilities to exist and be checked or triggered.

I might need to set specific parts of the tilemap to be game areas.
EX: Tilemap 1 is 0,0 to 43, 31 (one screen in tiles)
Maybe Title Scren is that screen, then shift camera to another screen for combat mode, maybe a third for upgrades
Maybe i should do the tilemap drawing in a -1 phase before going to actual loops?